Good morning, I'm Craig Keithley,
I'm Apple's USB security
cryptography evangelist.
Today we're going to talk about
CDSA and Secure Transport.
One of the challenges faced with moving
to a new operating system is what sort
of security infrastructure we provide.
And in the case of Mac OS X,
we looked around and we found that
CDSA suited our needs best of all.
It's an open standard.
It's open source.
It provides the services we need.
It will even interface
down to smart cards.
So it was really the
right solution for us.
So to talk about CDSA,
we want to bring out John Hurley
and later for Secure Transport,
Murph.
So, John?
Thanks, Craig.
Good morning, everyone.
Thanks for getting here so early.
So I'm going to start off with kind
of a brief introduction to CDSA.
One of the things that we wanted
to particularly do today was
really dive down into some code,
because you guys are all developers and
[Transcript missing]
So we're going to talk mainly
today in this session about
CDSA and using it for cryptography,
and then also about the
SecureTransport APIs,
which are being made public for JAGUAR.
I'm going to do a quick overview of
the architecture itself so you have
some idea of where the pieces fit in.
Then we're going to go into
just using it directly,
the APIs for doing crypto,
and also talk about using CDSA for SSL.
So CDSA itself is
Common Data Security Architecture.
Originally it came from Intel and
we shipped a version based
on the 1.2 standard in OS 9.
Moving to OS X,
we are now shipping the 2.1 version.
Based on our experiences
with the 1.2 version,
we provided a lot of input to the
open group and the other members
that were working on that standard.
The 2.1 spec is much easier
to use and much more standard.
There were a lot of pass-throughs
and things like that in the 1.2 spec.
This is the foundation of all the PKI,
public key infrastructure,
and cryptography, SSL,
all those things that we do in OS X.
So here's kind of the big
block diagram of CDSA.
And the CDSA APIs themselves,
it's kind of that blue bar down
at the bottom labeled CSSM.
Those are the actual CDSA APIs.
And the
Having that kind of go across the screen
indicates one of the main goals of CDSA,
which is we're trying to
isolate applications up above
so that the applications that
you see at the top in blue,
we really want those to not have to
know about all the details of the
crypto and other things down below.
Most developers are not
100% interested in security.
They have one or two needs
in their application,
and they kind of want to just
use things and get on with it
without knowing all these details.
And I think we've really seen some good
results with achieving that insulation in
the apps that we do internally at Apple,
and now we're seeing
developer applications really
making use of that as well.
So the... The red...
[Transcript missing]
Down below,
we have the add-in modules for CDSA.
And so CDSA is a pluggable architecture.
You can extend it by writing
modules and plugging these in.
The cryptographic service provider
implements various crypto algorithms.
I couldn't even tell you how many
we implement in the default plugin,
but it's quite a lot.
All the standard ones and
a bunch of weird ones,
too.
But anyway, those are all in the CSP.
If you wanted to put in different,
you know,
some kind of different crypto or like
a hardware accelerator box or whatever,
that would be the place to put that in.
On the far right there,
the Datastore library is,
roughly speaking,
it's a database for storing
security-related items.
And in fact,
it doesn't actually have to have any
security associated with it at all.
Those could be,
it could be an LDAP database,
for example.
The keychain is actually a
combination CSP and Datastore library.
And the...
The modules in the middle,
Certificate Library Module and
Trust Policy Module,
are for handling X5-09 certificates.
And I'll talk more about
those in just a minute.
Data Library modules is the
database portion of CDSA.
I suppose you could put an Oracle backend
on it or something like that,
but that's probably overkill for the kind
of things that you're doing in security.
As I mentioned, the Apple file CSP DL,
that's the basis for the keychain,
and it is a combination of CSP and DL.
So as you're storing information
into the keychain or retrieving it,
it's encrypting it as it puts
it into the datastore module.
and Keychains themselves
are just flat files.
Another example, which
A very interesting example is an LDAP DL.
Putting, for example,
certificates in an LDAP DL really
would make a lot of sense
because by their very nature,
the public key part of that is, well,
it's public, so LDAP directory would be
a perfect spot for that.
Certificate Library modules.
The whole goal of a Certificate
Library Module is just to be
able to parse a certificate.
So going up into CDSA,
clients that are using certificates
are going to need to know things like
the issuer and the expiration and
subject and various things like that.
And the CL basically knows
how to find that stuff in a
particular type of certificate.
So the standard CL that we
ship with Mac OS X knows how to
interpret X.509V3 certificates.
Other examples that would be possible,
although they don't exist right now,
would be a CL that knows how
to interpret PGP certificates
or attribute certificates.
Those would be a standard.
both be really good examples of things.
Trust Policy Modules, on the other hand,
that's sort of the other part
of the certificate equation,
If you have a particular certificate,
one of the main questions that
you want to ask with that is,
"Do I trust this certificate?" And so the
idea of a trust policy module is that you
take the certificate that you're trying
to decide whether you trust or not,
and you take some additional evidence,
which is, in the X.509 case,
it's usually the rest of the
certificates in the certificate chain,
pass that all into the
trust policy module,
and then let it churn away and return
the answer whether it's trusted or not.
And if not, which certificates might
not be right or whatever.
So there's actually,
the Trust Policy Module has a lot of
potential for doing interesting things.
You could do different
corporate-based Trust Policy Modules.
There are a lot of
interesting things there.
For example, in the PGP case,
that would also be-- to integrate
PGP into OS X would pretty much
be writing a CL and a TP module
that knew how to interpret PGP.
Okay, so one of the main things that
we wanted to talk about is
contrasting CDSA with OpenSSL.
And at Apple,
we've made a conscious decision
to try and evangelize CDSA because
we've worked with these things and
We have seen the solutions that
we can arrive at with CDSA.
We really think that
it's a more secure setup.
It's actually easier to use.
I think one of the main reasons
that OpenSSL has sort of gained
some currency is just that
there's sample code available.
We're really doing our best to get more
and more CDSA sample code out there.
So you can kind of go and grab
sample code and either do some quick
encryption or do some certificate stuff.
We're really trying to make
those things available.
Of course,
we'll have a lot better integration
with other applications and services
that we provide at the higher
levels because internally at Apple,
we are going through CDSA.
So that's the direction that
we're encouraging people to go in.
To explain a little bit more about
the more secure bullet point,
for example, in the SecureTransport case,
SecureTransport knows how
to deal with reference keys,
so it's not actually dealing
with the key bits itself.
In the OpenSSL APIs,
you're actually required to pass
key bits in through the interfaces.
So that means that you actually
have to have the key bits available.
Well, in the case of something
like a smart card,
that's not going to be the case.
You will not be able to
even have those key bits.
So that's one example where we
just feel like it's a better setup.
up.
Now I'd like to introduce
and bring on Richard Murphy.
He's the manager of Data Security Group.
Thanks.
Hi, everybody.
Thanks, John.
So, I wasn't originally supposed
to be doing this lecture.
My engineer up in Seattle, Doug Mitchell,
is going to be doing it.
He's really kind of the
group's crypto head.
He knows all about these algorithms.
He maintains the CSP in the CDSA stack.
He also did the
SecureTransport layer as well.
So, Doug had something come up,
and I said, "That's okay." I said,
"Ship me some sample code,
and I'll walk through it,
and everything will be cool."
So he shipped me a sample code of
CDSA doing encryption of a blob.
and he shipped me a sample code of
SecureTransport doing a GET operation.
and it was really,
really interesting going through this.
First of all, I looked at the CDSA code
and I kind of went,
"Oh, my God,
there's a lot of code there."
And then I looked at the
SecureTransport code and I went,
"This is a lot easier.
This is a lot more sane." So I'd like
to back up just a little bit first.
It really brings home this
whole layering thing here.
We did base our security strategy,
our crypto strategy,
on using the CDSA stacks.
The Common Security Services Manager here
,
along with its attendant CSP,
or Cryptographic Service Provider,
the cert library,
the trust policy manager,
and the data store library.
CDSA is extremely powerful.
It has a whole bunch of options.
It has a whole bunch of
different ways to configure it.
Furthermore, you can expand it by
plugging in different CSPs,
different CLs, and that sort of stuff.
As John says, said,
we can work with PGP certificates
if we replace the CL and the TP,
rather than the X509 certificates
that Apple's currently supporting.
We could write an interface to plug in
a hardware crypto box where the CSP is,
or work with smart cards.
We could work with an LDAP data store,
or something like that,
rather than a file data store like we
currently use in the data store library.
But, one of the things that does
is it means that that layer,
that common security
services manager layer,
has to do a lot of stuff
to make things look common.
You have to generate context.
[Transcript missing]
The example, um,
encryption code using just CDSA.
What this thing has to do is
initialize some local variables.
It ends up creating a CSSM key,
which is the way that keys are
actually passed around through
the crypto algorithms in CDSA.
It copies in the caller's key material.
So this is a standard encryption call
where you're passing in a password
or passphrase or something like that.
[Transcript missing]
So the header for our
function looks like this.
It's a do_encrypt.
It's going to take a CSP handle.
We'll talk about that in a second.
[Transcript missing]
CSP Handle,
I was talking to Doug earlier this week,
and I said, "So,
what's the CSP Handle thing?
How much does it take
to do that?" He said,
"Well, you have to initialize CSSM,
you have to load the CSP module,
you have to attach it."
So, this all kind of pointed me at, boy,
this has got to get a little bit simpler.
So, more on that a little bit later.
We have some local variables.
We have a CSSM key,
which is actually gonna be used
to hold the generated key itself.
We're going to have a handle for
doing the context operations.
A UN32 variable key length to
actually do all the type conversions
for us for the actual key length
to get it in the right order.
A label for the actual key itself.
An initial vector.
We're going to be using AES as
our encryption algorithm.
This is a block mode cipher.
We have to have an initial vector for it.
We'll have bytes encrypted
for a return variable,
total number of bytes that
have actually been done,
and then the remaining data structure.
So the first thing we actually
have to do is create the CSSM key.
This is actually going to be used
a little bit later on when we
perform the encryption algorithm.
We're just going to create a
context for the first call.
[Transcript missing]
There are approximately, let me see,
what did he say, 30 algorithms?
Something like that that you can
actually use for encryption in our CSP.
Key size and bits, 128.
We're passing in no seed or salt.
We're going to let those get
generated by the library itself.
You can have a start date and
end date for encryption keys.
We aren't using that feature in this one,
since we're passing in the key itself.
Then there's a place for
additional parameters,
and finally the actual
handle to the context itself.
Here's the call to actually generate
the key using the information available.
We actually want to be able to
get this key out of the CSP.
A lot of times when we generate keys,
we want to generate it and
store it in the DL so that
nobody can get it back out.
One of the things that we do in our
scheme is that key material is normally
protected from the user address space,
so that you can't simply
go out and interrogate it.
We do this by using a
Unix process architecture,
and actually then when we
want to do the encryption,
we use IPCs in order to actually
be able to encrypt the data.
We're going to pass,
get everything back in
the AES key variable.
Once we've actually done that,
we actually take all of this stuff and
we put it back into the AES key data
structure that we'd allocated previously.
This is basically getting set up then for
the encryption operation that comes next.
[Transcript missing]
We use the AES key that we just set up
Passing the initialization vector,
we specify how it's supposed to
be padded and pass in the handle.
So here we go with the actual
Encrypt the Data operation.
Pass in the handle.
We've got a plain text buffer coming in.
There is only one of them.
That's what the 1s stand for.
There's a ciphertext buffer
ready to handle it coming out.
So, I'm going to tell you how many
bytes are encrypted and how much
remaining data there actually is.
That actually will perform
the operation given all the
specifications that we've set up.
At the end of all this,
we might have some remaining
data that needs to be appended
to the actual output buffer,
the ciphertext buffer that we had set
up at the opening of the function.
So we'll go through and actually
start moving that stuff out.
We have to reallocate some more space.
And then we do a memmove to
actually move the data out.
We free the old remdata.data portion,
delete the cryptographic context,
and we return that everything is okay.
Now obviously we didn't do
much error checking in there,
and you could add all of that.
There are a lot more options that we
could have done along the way as well.
Okay, so it's a whole lot of operations.
One of the things that we end up doing
at Apple quite a bit is we're kind of the
crypto guys for the entire organization.
And we try not to tell people, "Well,
just do, you know,
use CDSA and send them on their way
and make them all happy." So we've
started to make a lot of sample code.
We're going to start trying to
make a lot more of that available
if you go to our open source site.
So that an encrypt operation
should end up taking about
two lines of code at most.
So keep looking at the open source
site for a little bit more of that.
Here's an example of an upper layer
piece of code using SecureTransport.
Secure Transport is layered on
top of the CDSA infrastructure.
We designed it explicitly to be able
to do all SSL operations on the system.
It'll do server-side
and client-side support.
supports a whole bunch
of different protocols:
V2, V3, and TLS.
You can actually write server-side or
client-side code using an identical API.
You don't need to have your
actual application do any
of the crypto operations.
Secure Transport will actually
set all of that up for you.
The other thing is we actually
made this so that there's a
transport layer independence to it.
We can use this actually with
Unix sockets if you want.
If you want to use OpenTransport,
you can use it that way.
You can use it in asynchronous
mode or non-blocking mode,
or synchronous mode
and non-blocking mode.
And it has a pretty straightforward API.
One of the real benefits of this is
that you actually end up with the cert
handling being done by the CDSA stack.
One of the things we're trying to
do in Mac OS X is have a common
handling of all certificates,
so that you actually have
a common cert data store.
Things are actually all
accessed the same way.
The user can set up their trust of
various certs exactly the same way.
And so this actually all
just ties in automatically.
CERTs are actually used by reference.
On the server side,
you actually have the actual
identities being handled by
Keychain and the secure server.
The benefit of this is that the
private key is never actually
exposed to the user process,
so that all operations are being
done through the security server.
And this actually gives you quite a
bit of protection of your key material.
The other part of this
is that down the road,
should we ever develop a
hardware CSP to interface to any
vendor's hardware encryption box,
we can actually use
those functions as well.
In general,
most of those types of devices
will also hide the key material.
So you have to have programmed at
the very beginning with a paradigm of
using essentially hidden private keys.
So this actually helps out
quite a bit in that regard.
It allows the calling code
to specify a whole bunch of
protocol parameters or not,
or take the defaults.
And it can examine the protocol
parameters on the basis of
the successful negotiation of
the beginning of the session.
The other benefit of this is that
it actually gets to springboard
or use all the algorithms
that are contained in our CSP.
So that basically just about anything
that the transaction hits along
the way can be handled with the
combination of all of our algorithms.
Internally,
CF Network and URL Access are APIs that
actually use Secure Transport.
There are other applications at the
higher levels that actually then
benefit as well automatically from that.
Mail is actually using this
for the SSL connection as well.
The Secure Transport functions themselves
actually break down into kind of a
set of common series of functions.
There's functions to
actually set up your session.
[Transcript missing]
You can specify,
you can either get or set
any series of attributes,
the domain name actually
in use for the transaction,
you can get the negotiated
protocol version,
supported ciphers, etc.
There are some options.
One of the problems we had with
URL access in 9 was that as root
certificates started to become expired,
we started to get a lot of negative 96,
96, 96, 96, 69 errors coming back,
which essentially mapped into
the remote server was mapping
back to an expired root cert.
So Secure Transport can actually
be set up to ignore the fact that
the remote cert has been expired
and continue the session anyway.
Then there are the protocol functions.
And finally,
there's the I/O functions that
actually do the reads and writes
and then close and actually do the
callbacks and that sort of stuff.
So the sample code...
One of the first things you
have to do when setting up use
of the SecureTransport function
is to define two functions:
your read callback and a write callback.
These have three parameters each.
They have an SSL connection ref,
which can be any of a socket,
file descriptor,
or an open transport interface.
Basically anything you want to do.
This essentially maps to a void
star in the actual interface.
So essentially anything
you can read or write from,
we're happy to provide you with.
We're just going to pass it back.
When you read,
you're going to pass it back as data,
and you're going to pass back the length.
On the right side,
you're going to get the data in,
and the length of the data itself.
So here's our function to
actually do a GET using SSL.
We're going to call it PerformSSL.
It takes in a socket as its input.
It has the data to send to the server,
the actual get string, the data length,
and then it actually has a buffer
for passing back the data and the
length of that data coming back.
As local variables,
we set up a cont- have a
context reference variable.
It's actually used to hold onto
the SecureTransport object itself,
status return, the actual length,
and how much data is remaining.
In order to set up,
we pass in-- we pass to SSL new
context the SSL context pointer.
That essentially returns
your context pointer.
We can set the I/O functions to my
read callback and my write callback
so that we're ready to do I/O.
And then finally we set up the
connection to be used in this particular
case with the passed in socket.
For this particular transfer,
we're asking for
SSL version 3 protocol only.
You could also specify any of the
other options that you would want
to do at this particular point.
[Transcript missing]
Then you actually start the session.
You do the SSL handshake
with the context raff.
Once we do that,
we actually send the get string
itself with an SSL write.
Basically,
this will ultimately end up calling
your write callback along with
the appropriate SSL wrapping.
Once we've done that,
we go into a read loop.
As long as there's
buffer space remaining,
we do an SSL read that
calls your callback.
We check for errors and
continue on through the loop.
Finally,
we close the context and dispose of it.
So, the SSL protocol is a lot more
complex operation than simply
doing a block encryption.
And yet,
this is a fair bit less code than
you would have to do if you were
doing this directly with CDSA.
Some of the other examples of code
we're hoping to provide as an example
in the first round is just a simple
encrypt function based on CDSA.
So that you can make these calls with
only one or two calls themselves.
For some of you, however,
you're going to want to
actually work at the CDSA level,
and so that's all available.
So there's a lot of
documentation on that.
There's the open group documentation.
If you need that level of control,
you can use that.
If you want to do more,
or if you want to do
things a little bit easier,
we're providing more and more functions.
The next session itself has
to do with the Sec APIs.
There are a lot of APIs that
we've created to deal with
handling access control lists on
certificates and that sort of stuff.
And also dealing with
certificates themselves.
So we're trying to make
things a little bit easier,
but the whole reason for using
CDSA itself is to allow us the
flexibility to move to different
crypto service providers,
different data libraries, etc.
For more information, contact Craig,
and I think we're up to... Oh, yes,
can't forget this.
This next session coming
up is the Sec APIs.
This afternoon we have
the feedback forum.
Later on this afternoon, we also have the
Directory Services discussion,
and then also Kerberos is this afternoon.
So it's kind of a full day of security.
Make sure you hit all the sessions.
For more information,
there's a couple URLs.
All of CDSA is open source.
Please go check it out.
We have the Developer Security webpage,
which includes some example code.
There's the CDSA link to the
open group pages on CDSA itself
and the documentation.
We also have PCSC code
available in Mac OS X.
There's a product security web page
dealing with real security problems,
that sort of stuff,
not so much from the developer side,
but also from security problems
having to do with Mac OS X.
And finally,
there's the Secure Trusted OS Consortium.
One of the projects we're
actually working on is trying to
create an SE version of Mac OS X,
and they're doing most
of the work with that.
I'd like to move on to the next question.